### Type safety (safe, unsafe)

1. "Type safe" usually refers to languages that ensure that an operation is working on the right kind of data at some point before the operation is actually performed.  This may be at compile time or at run time.
2. Type safety means that the language(compiler) will validate types while compiling, and throw an error if you try to assign the wrong type to a variable.

Languages that are not "type safe", what you might call "type unsafe" languages. In assembler and C you can often treat a pointer as an integer, an integer as a string, a 2-byte integer as a 4-byte integer, or series of bytes as a structure. Used correctly, this can offer some performance benefit because data doesn't have to be copied or translated if it can be "re-interpreted" as a different type, but it is also a source of bugs so newer languages are generally "type safe".

### Statically typed languages / Dynamically typed languages

Static/Dynamic Typing is about when type information is acquired (Either at compile time or at runtime)

A language is statically typed if the type of a variable is known at compile time. For some languages this means that you as the programmer must specify what type each variable is (e.g.: Java, C, C++).

A language is dynamically typed if the type is associated with run-time values.

### Strong typing / Weak (loose) typing

Strong/Weak Typing is about how strictly types are distinguished (e.g. whether the language tries to do an implicit conversion from strings to numbers).

Programming languages in which variables have specific data types are strong typed. This implies that in strong typed languages, variables are necessarily bound to a particular data type. Python is strong typed, and so is Java.

As opposed to strong typed languages, weak typed languages are those in which variables are not of a specific data type. It should be noted that this does not imply that variables do not have types; it does mean that variables are not "bound" to a specific data type. PHP and C/C++ are examples of weak typed languages.

Thus, Python is dynamic typed and strong typed; Java is static typed and strong typed; PHP is dynamic typed and weak typed; C/C++ is static typed and weak typed (owing to its casting ability) - "kinda weakly typed".
